…English, in the sense that we sat down
together and translated Sanskrit puja into
English and tried to make it more understandable
by you people.
It’s the day of Mahalakshmi puja they say,
not only of Lakshmi Puja.
There’s a difference between the two.
Mahalakshmi is one of the powers of the three
powers, main powers, of Adi Shakti.
As you know: Mahalakshmi, Mahasaraswati, Mahakali.
Now these powers have powers at a material
level also, at a subtler level also.
So Mahalakshmi power is achieved after Lakshmi
power, as they say.
So the Lakshmi…there are eight powers of
Lakshmi.
This Lakshmi was born, who came out of the
sea, the great sea, which was churned thousands
and thousands of years back.
And She came out of the sea because She is
the daughter of the sea.
That’s why She’s called as Neeraja.
‘Neera’ means ‘water’ and ‘ja’
means ‘born out of’.
This has happened thousands and thousand [of]
years back that She was born.
So what is that?
What is this Lakshmi symbolically, what is
it expressing?
It is expressing the awareness.
Lakshmi expresses awareness, and She came
out of the sea, you know that.
The awareness first started growing in the
sea.
The life started existing in the sea, to begin
with, and then it grew out.
Without the life there is no awareness.
First the life, because everything is jada
(inanimate matter), everything is dead.
And when it becomes life it means it has awareness.
So the awareness started growing in the sea.
This is the symbolic expression.
In the gross level you can understand this
way.
But actually in the subtle level, it is the
other way round.
And because we see things from the gross level,
we say that, that is symbolic.
But actually from the other side if you say,
“This is symbolic.”
Do you understand this point?
So for me it is symbolic to see how the life
came into being in the sea and that it became
aware.
For me it is symbolic.
And for you it is symbolic the other way round.
I mean if I see something from this side,
I see this way and while you see from that
side you see this way.
To understand this, if you want to paint something
on a glass, how do you paint it on the glass?
Have you any idea?
You start painting first the outermost things
that you have to paint.
For example if you are painting the Goddess,
first you will paint Her ornaments, then Her
sari, then Her body.
Like that it will be moving deeper from this
side, if you are painting it on the glass,
because you have to see it from the other
side.
But supposing you have to paint it on a canvas,
you’ll paint it the other way round.
You first paint the body, then the sari and
then the ornaments.
So to one thing it is symbolic because they
think this goes from their angle.
To the other person who is from the other
angle this is absolutely symbolic.
And it’s surprising that everything is so
symbolic and so much just
the same that, whatever you may say, the subtle
remains subtle and the gross remains gross.
The one who is at the subtle level sees the
gross as a symbolic expression of the subtle.
Now She was born in the sea.
She was called as Neeraja.
She was born in the sea.
Or Nira, that means ‘water’.
My name is, one of them is, Nira as you know.
Out of Nirmala one name is Nira, Nima and
Nira, like that I have got three names, four
names I should say.
The big one is Nirmala.
So this Nira part means what?
That She was born in the sea.
The name of Mary is also the same.
Maryam or Mary, I don’t know how you say
in English.
But Maryam this comes from ‘marine’.
The word ‘marine’.
‘Marine’ itself comes from the word Mary.
So this Mahalakshmi, Mary, is named and She
is because She was born in the sea and that’s
how Her name was Mary.
Mariana they call Her, some people call Her
Mariana, sometime call Her Miriam.
All these words are indicating that She was
born in the sea.
So She is Mahalakshmi.
Now Mary is Mahalakshmi and Ganesha is the
child.
Now see how symbolically it works, that only
in Diwali the Lakshmi and the Ganesha are
worshipped, only these two personalities.
Can you understand that?
The symbol of Mahalakshmi, for me, is Mary.
For you it is Mahalakshmi is the symbol.
And the symbol of Ganesha outside is Christ.
He is symbolising Ganesha.
So, both of them are worshipped only on a
Diwali day.
So actually this is the Christmas.
This is the real Christmas that was before
also, and this was the time baby Christ was
born, not the 25th of December.
Though it’s a misunderstanding, doesn’t
matter, keep it up.
Doesn’t matter, whenever He’s born.
Because there used to be a very big festival,
and after the festival He was born.
It’s called as Valanan.
I don’t know what you call in modern times.
That time it was called like that.
And then this child was born and that was
the time Christmas was celebrated.
It was just tallying with that, but somehow
it shifted.
I don’t know how, how it shifted.
And there might be somewhere you will find
out that the real Christmas was shifted.
Gavin Brown: Yes it was.
That’s known.
Shri Mataji: All right.
And symbolically in this lifetime also, in
the Kali Yuga also, same thing happens that
Mahalakshmi and Ganesha were born, and that’s
why they are worshipped.
Now you ask anyone, why Ganesha and Mahalakshmi
are worshipped, after all, on a Diwali day?
And it was the darkest night.
It was the darkest night, and that night a
star was there.
And because it was such a dark night that
star was very much noticed by everyone.
It was a cold night, very cold night, and
a dark night.
So the symbol of Diwali is very great for
Sahaj Yogis.
First of all you have to know there are four
days that are celebrated in Diwali.
But there is one more day added to it in Maharashtra.
The first day of Diwali is called as Dhanatrayodashi:
is the thirteenth day of the moon.
Because that day is the first day when Lakshmi,
the first one, was born on the thirteenth
day.
That means She was born as a Gruhalakshmi,
as a housewife.
Now there are eight Lakshmis, which she will
read it out.
And I will tell you later on what is the meaning
of them.
One of them is Gruhalakshmi.
So the first is the form of a Gruhalakshmi.
She is born as a Gruhalakshmi to begin with.
That means the awareness of human beings also,
started really getting into evolutionary process
when they started their family life.
When they were vagabonds moving about, then
the awareness was just like animals.
Though they had become human beings, but they
were like animals.
Then when they established their families,
then the Gruhalakshmi started working and
that’s how the first advent of Gruhalakshmi
was felt.
So She’s the first Lakshmi who was born,
and that’s why on that thirteenth day is
the day of the Gruhalakshmi, of the housewife.
And so one has to go in the market and buy
some utensils or something that she uses for
cooking in the house.
In India on the thirteenth day everyone goes
and buys a pot or, we can say, what you call,
a cooking utensil or something.
Or they may buy a sari or something or gold
or something for the Gruhalakshmi.
That is the day of the household.
So, to reach the Lakshmi one has to understand
that motherhood is very important.
The motherhood, as a Gruhalakshmi is important.
Then the second day is even more important
because Narakasura was killed.
Horrible Narakasura, as you know him.
But actually that day many rakshasas are killed
in many…
That’s a day fixed for killing rakshasas!
And then they are put in the hell.
On the fourteenth day they are put in the
hell.
So that’s called as Naraka Chaturdashi.
That is the day when the hell is opened out.
That day Sahaja Yogis are supposed to sleep
in the night while everybody does all kinds
of tantrikavidya and all that on the fourteenth
day.
Then the fifteenth is that darkest night.
That’s the darkest night when there is no
moon.
Absolutely that’s the day when they celebrate
Deepawali, Diwali day.
But symbolically, in India also, Shri Rama
returned to his place (Ayodhya) on that day
and was crowned on that day.
So the significance of Diwali is expressed
in this manner: that this is the day when
Narakasura, and all of them are killed, they
have all gone to Narak, they have gone to
the hell, and the people now are saved from
them and they are celebrating the joy.
And that is the time when Christ was born.
That’s why lights are to be put in the night,
because He was born at twelve o’clock in
the night.
So the next day to that, is the day [which]
is celebrated in India only in Maharashtra.
I don’t know [if] people celebrate otherwise.
I don’t know.
Shri Mataji: Do you celebrate the next day?
Yogini: The next day?
Shri Mataji: That’s the first day of the
moon.
That is the forefathers of your Mother, Shalivahanas,
they started a calendar, from that date.
And so on the first [day], that means the
first day of the moon, the new year is celebrated
here.
Now see symbolically, Christ is born and a
new year is celebrated the next day.
As soon as He is born the new year should
start.
So next year it starts, the new year.
That is a new year in many parts of our country
where Shalivahana ruled there.
The Shalivahana was my forefather, I should
say, they were just a dynasty.
And this dynasty ruled in India since very
long.
Even in the old puranas it is written that
they helped Krishna in their war.
You know all the story about Shalivahana,
quite a lot.
And so the new year starts.
So for us that is the new year.
For Sahaj Yogis that is the new year and you
have to accept it.
And your Mother is of that dynasty.
I mean no force on you but if you like you
can have it.
Then the second day is also very important:
is the second day [of] the moon.
That is [when] the moon came out of the sea.
According to this mythology, the Lakshmi came
out of the sea and with Her this moon came
out, which was only a two day old moon, the
new moon but a two day old moon.
And this was regarded as the brother of Lakshmi,
because they were born at the same time, from
the sea.
So He is the brother of Lakshmi.
It’s all symbolic.
It’s very, very symbolic.
Now the Left Side belongs to Mahakali, and
a brother had to be on this side, on the Left
Side.
But actually you will be amazed that He is
the brother of Lakshmi.
He is not a brother of Mahakali.
But because He’s the brother of Lakshmi
he is accepted as a brother of all the goddesses:
one brother for all of them.
So He is the only brother, who is this moon.
So He is your uncle, He is your maternal uncle.
It’s very interesting.
Because we have a special right on our maternal
uncle, we can always ask for His help.
And it’s a big story about this churning
that took place that Shiva saw all the poison
also coming out.
So He drank the poison because He was the
only one who could drink the poison.
And He got so heated up in His head, in His
neck that He wanted something to cool Him.
So He took to this moon and put it on His
head.
So the crowning [of Shiva] is the moon.
Now if you see, on Monday is the day of Sahastrara.
Monday is the day of the Moon.
Monday is the day of Sahastrara because Sadashiva
has put it on His head.
And that’s what people tease Him that, “Your
brother-in-law is sitting on your head!”
(laughing) It’s very interesting.
It’s very symbolic for you — not for me,
but for you — that the brother-in-law is
sitting on the head.
This brother-in-law is very important, and
if brother-in-law is in any way angry then
even Sadashiva has to think twice.
An all very special relationship, which is
very sweet, and which is very expressive.
And if you want to understand it, that your
brother-in-law — is a naughty little thing
— is the brother of the wife.
If you have to keep your wife pleased, that
is the power, you have to keep the brother-in-law
quite happy.
So He said it’s better to keep him on His
head.
If there’s a naughty child, what do you
do to a naughty child?
You put him up somewhere there so he doesn’t
move.
Always you take a child outside, you put him
out there.
And He is very dear to Sadashiva, who really
loves Him in a special way.
And that day is the day when all the sisters
worship their brothers — it’s very important
it is.
[On] Raksha Bandhan day they give a symbolic
expression to their desire that their brother
should be good, but on this day they worship
their brothers, they actually worship them.
They are invited at home, they are made to
sit on the special type of a seat, then also
aarti is done to them.
Sometimes if they are very small, younger
brothers, then they are even given bath nicely.
If they are older brothers also they’ll
cover all their body, but water will be poured
on them as a symbol and they are given new
dresses to wear.
And very special food is cooked that day.
And then they
are served special food ahead of their husbands.
Always husband is served first, but that day
a brother gets the food first.
And then the brother-in-law is teased a lot,
and the younger brother-in-law teases his
sister’s husband.
And it’s a very nice function.
It’s called as Bhau-Beej.
And that day the brother gives some things
to the sister as a present.
He will give even if you don’t have anything,
you can give anything, whatever it is.
But you give something as a symbol of your
love to your sister.
And this day, today, is that day.
It’s such a nice day to do puja.
This is the day when we all adjust together.
But for a Gruhalakshmi, the brother is very
important.
And the brotherhood and sisterhood is the
base of our Sahaj Yoga collectivity.
If you understand that brotherhood and sisterhood
is love which is very pure.
There is no expectation.
It’s just love.
It’s giving love and taking love.
And absolute purity within us should exist
between our relationships when we call them
as Sahaj Yogi brothers and sisters.
And as there is understanding, complete understanding,
between the brother and sister in a family,
one has to know we are all part and parcel
of a family, born of the same Mother.
Nobody has to shoot off or nobody has to become
something great, nobody has to correct others,
nobody has to say that, “I’m something
unique!”
All of you have to work it out together and
find out a solution working out together in
complete friendship and unison.
Anyone who cuts off himself and goes out or
becomes anything else, goes out of circulation
and is useless for Sahaj Yoga.
Such a person is completely useless!
The one who tries to get out of the family.
All of you have to be supporting each other,
helping to each other, not shouting at each
other or getting angry with each other; trusting
each other, not finding faults; treating each
other with respect and love.
This is the most important thing the Sahaj
Yogis don’t understand — that
you are saints and
you have to respect each other.
For example, you cannot doubt each other,
you cannot.
That’s not allowed, it’s prohibited.
You are not to doubt each other.
Here where, I would say that: if somebody
slaps you on one cheek, turn the other.
That will work out here.
In this Sahaj Yoga one has to do it.
Not to criticise anyone, not to put down anyone.
You are all Saints, why don’t you recognise
it?
How can you insult a saint?
You are men of God, do you realise that?
How can you put down anyone and say, “They
are not good,” and, “They are good”?
If you start doing that, somebody else will
take advantage of you
and will really push you down and you will
be in very great trouble.
Never get into such funny ideas, that you
are better than the others, that you can do
better than the others.
The one who starts doing the better is doing
the greatest harm.
There is no competition in Sahaj Yoga.
Give up this idea of competition.
You are brothers and sisters.
You have to support each other, help each
other.
Anybody is going down, try to work out on
them.
If you find somebody is going down too much
beat him with shoes.
But anybody who thinks he is very great, he
has this special quality or that quality:
supposing somebody thinks he is very neat,
he should hang himself by the nearest tree!
That’s what I sometimes feel.
Because on this point there are so many quarrels
going on!
But somebody who thinks he has a right to
be untidy also should hang himself by the
nearest tree!
And should know that, “I’m making an inconvenience
of myself to others.”
You must respect!
If there is no mutual respect, this brother
and sister relationship is not there.
It’s a very sweet relationship which you
have not enjoyed unfortunately.
But in India we have.
Our brothers will give up their lives for
us.
And we will give our lives for our brothers.
And our brothers have so much faith in us
that if we tell them that, “You should not
do this!” they know that this we are doing
only just to help him out, not to show off
our great importance or giving a big sermon,
but it is just because we love him.
The love is so established and if that love
is not established, what are you showing off
about?
Today is, in a way, a very great year, in
the brothers and sisters relationship.
How do you express your brothers and sisters
relationship?
I do not like to hear complaints, but I see
that it is full of ego.
The reason is, people are behaving in such
a manner that I cannot understand that you
are saints!
What has happened to you?
How can you be individualistic?
I’ll give you a simple example: we have
got in our house some sort of plants, which
could only grow inside the house, but when
it was summertime, we put them outside and
they were growing well.
But when the winter came in suddenly one night
they all became absolutely dead you can call
it.
So, the servant got upset he said, “What
to do now?”
I said, “You bring them inside!”
Now he said, “They won’t grow.”
I said, “They will.”
I said, “You get four [or] five of them,
put them together in one thing.”
And they started growing well.
Because whatever is missing in one person,
you support from the another person.
And this support is so natural and spontaneous
which flows.
If you try to correct others then you are
draining out your energy and the energy of
another person.
Just try to support that person.
That’s how it works out.
And that’s how it sustains, it’s nourishing.
I mean it’s an experiment you can try also,
at home.
If you put four five trees together when they
are in delicate condition they grow better.
Why, when we grow our saplings we put them
together?
Why don’t we put them separate?
You see, when we have got a small seed and
we have to make them into saplings, we never
put them separately we put them together,
in a small block.
If you put them separately they will never
come up.
Then they are kept in that condition together,
till they grow.
When they are grown, then only they are taken
from that collective group and put separately.
Have you not seen this happening?
And this is what is collectivity.
At the delicate point when Sahaj Yoga is coming
up, we have to be much more closer together.
Later on when you are very powerful it’s
all right because you will have greater rapport.
But it’s such a vicious circle that at this
time when you are weak you are also falling
off.
And this collectivity is all-embracing.
Of course these are due to your ego, superego,
whatever problems.
But only together you are going to be.
But I have seen, when you are mesmerised,
you fall in love with each other, absolutely:
when you are mesmerised.
But when there is freedom, you cannot enjoy
your collectivity.
In freedom people find it very difficult:
then somebody behaves like an ascetic, some
behaves like a madcap, somebody behaves like
a hot-tempered fellow, another behaves like
a city consul.
I don’t know.
When it is freedom you do not grow in a healthy
way together.
You must know there must be something within
you which is keeping you out from collectivity.
At this stage the best thing is to surrender
and beat yourself with shoes.
Any such ideas come into your head you just
do that way.
That’s the way it will work out.
Today is the day you have to promise, today,
here.
Shri Mataji: Where is Cooly?
I can’t see him.
Is he there?
Yogini: He wasn’t allowed to come, Mother.
Shri Mataji: Hmm?
He’s not come
Yogi: I think you said he wasn’t allowed
to come, Mother.
Shri Mataji: He’s not come?
Yogini: He wasn’t allowed to come, Mother.
Shri Mataji: He was not allowed?
Yogi: I think you told him that he wasn’t
allowed.
Shri Mataji: All right.
I did say.
I’m sorry.
I did, I had to.
Certain things had to be done.
I am sorry.
But you must know you are people who are chosen
specially.
What prophecies are made for you if you read
that ‘Milton’ (by William Blake) you will
know — the English people.
What prophecies!
“The Men of God will be there and they will
have their own heroes and they will not follow
these Romans and Greeks and their horrible
heroes.
They’ll have their innocent heroes, and
all those things.”
And here I find that there’s a kind of a
passion for falling down.
Keep together.
Love each other.
Understand them.
Love not of mesmerism, but of freedom.
In freedom you must love each other.
I never take away your freedom, that’s one
thing, whether you fall or rise.
First thing is for your freedom.
That is the thing on which you are going to
move.
So today is the day where you all have to
promise and pray that, this brotherhood and
sisterhood will be established.
Ask for it in this soil of England, this is
the Jerusalem.
Ask for that, that this will be established
on the soil of Jerusalem.
That’s the most important thing.
And you will be surprised that once this is
established, Lakshmi is established.
Now Mahalakshmi has eight aspects.
Now read about these eight aspects.
How many there are, let us see!
First follow!
Yogini: Om Twameva Sakshat Shri Adya Lakshmi
Namoh Namah.
Shri Mataji: Adya Lakshmi.
Adya Lakshmi means Mahalakshmi.
Adya Lakshmi.
Adi, Adya.
Adya Lakshmi: that’s the first one.
You say now, you repeat it!
Yogis: Om twameva Sakshat, Shri Adya Lakshmi
Sakshat, Shri Adi Shakti Sakshat, Shri Bhagawati
Sakshat, Shri Mataji, Shri Nirmala Devi, Namoh
Namaha.
Shri Mataji: Now, second one.
Yogini: Om Twameva Sakshat Shri Vidya Lakshmi
Namoh Namah.
Shri Mataji: Vidya – vidya is the art of
Sahaj Yoga, which you know.
That is vidya.
The rest is all avidya.
How to raise the Kundalini; how to awaken
all the deities; how to cleanse yourself;
how to cleanse others.
All the knowledge; all the science about that
is called as vidya: the Lakshmi of that.
Lakshmi is the grace, is the grace.
The awareness that is gracious.
So that Lakshmi should be with you, not only
to know the vidya, you know that, but to have
grace about it.
The way people do things, for example: some
people will just go on.
All that kind of a nonsense you do.
Sometimes the way we go on working [on themselves],
and I’m giving a lecture and people are
just working out.
All that is most disgraceful and disgracious
(ungracious).
So not to do these method of making the thing
look so disgracious.
I mean you need not be serious people at all,
because Sahaj Yoga is not a serious thing.
It is a play.
It is a play of grace.
You have to be gracious; you are not to be
disgraceful, that’s very important.
If you are disgraceful then your vidya is
useless.
I have seen many people all the time doing
like this, doing like that; they think that
it’s their left hand job, you see, and they
have become now masters of this job.
There’s no grace about it.
One has to see how to do it graciously.
Do you see your Mother, how She moves Her
hands and feet.
Not one day, one time, even in one action
you will find me doing something ungraceful
like that except when I copy you! (laughter)
So this is what it is, is the Vidya Lakshmi.
Lakshmi is the grace to do everything.
Come, second one, third.
Yogini: Om twameva Sakshat, Shri-
Shri Mataji: …and now you could say it.
“Om twameva…”
Yogis: Om twameva sakshat, Shri Vidya Lakshmi
sakshat, Shri Adi Shakti Sakshat, Shri Bhagawati
Sakshat, Shri Mataji, Shri Nirmala Devi, Namoh
Namaha.
Shri Mataji: For Left Swadhishthana you know
this is the Mantra.
Third One.
Yogini: Om Twameva Sakshat Shri Saubhagya
Lakshmi Namoh Namah.
Shri Mataji: Sau-bha-gya, Saubhagya means
‘good fortune’.
The Lakshmi that gives you good fortune in
every way.
Like She gives you good fortune in money,
in your living, in your food, in every way.
Any good fortune is given through God.
It’s only God who gives good fortune.
If you get money say in the racecourse, that’s
bad fortune because that will be lost next
day or you will go to the pub to be free.
But if you get the real one, then you create
something out of it which is blissful and
great: is Saubhagya Lakshmi.
Now, say it.
Saubhagya Lakshmi.
Yogis: Om twameva sakshat, Shri Saubaghya
Lakshmi Sakshat, Shri Adi Shakti Sakshat,
Shri Bhagawati Sakshat, Shri Mataji, Shri
Nirmala Devi, Namoh Namaha.
Shri Mataji: Amruta.
Yogini: Om Twameva Sakshat Shri Amrut Lakshmi
Namah.
Shri Mataji: Amruta.
Amruta means the thing that does not die.
In this world the Lakshmi exists as your wealth.
Now the wealth that does not die, which is
that wealth?
Is the Spirit.
So the grace of the Spirit is the Amruta Lakshmi.
Grace of the Spirit is the Amruta Lakshmi.
The rest of the things all will die out.
And whatever is done through the Spirit, to
please the Spirit, is the Amruta Lakshmi,
for example: loving others.
Loving others has a different meaning in the
symbolic way as you people understand it.
Loving means giving; doing without any expectation.
Just doing and enjoying it.
The greatest is giving vibrations.
That is Amruta.
Vibrations do not die.
That’s the Lakshmi of the Amruta.
Yogis: Om Twameva sakshat, Shri Amruta Lakshmi
Sakshat, Shri Adi Shakti Sakshat, Shri Bhagawati
Sakshat, Shri Mataji, Shri Nirmala Devi, Namoh
Namaha.
Yogini: Om Twameva Sakshat Shri Kaam Lakshmi…
Shri Mataji: No, Gruhalakshmi!
You know that, Gruhalakshmi.
Yogis: Om twameva Sakshat, Shri Gruhalakshmi
Sakshat, Shri Adi Shakti Sakshat, Shri Bhagawati
Sakshat, Shri Mataji, Shri Nirmala Devi, Namoh
Namaha”.
Shri Mataji: Ha.
Yogini: Om Twameva Sakshat Shri Satya Lakshmi
Namah.
Shri Mataji: Sa-tya: [as] I told awareness.
She is the one who has given you awareness.
Awareness is Lakshmi’s character.
Satya means the truth.
As you rise in your awareness, you know the
truth.
Now what is the truth?
What is the truth?
What are we aware of?
You are aware that you are the instrument
of God and that He is working through you.
You are aware of that because it’s flowing
on your central nervous system.
This is the truth of which you have to be
aware.
What is the other truth?
Is who are you?
That you are the Spirit.
And the third truth is, who am I?
And the fourth truth is who is God?
What is your destiny?
If they become your awareness, then you have
got Satya Lakshmi.
Say now.
Yogis: Om Twameva Sakshat, Shri Satya Lakshmi
Sakshat, Shri Adi Shakti Sakshat, Shri Bhagawati
Sakshat, Shri Mataji, Shri Nirmala Devi, Namoh
Namaha.
Yogini: Om Twameva Sakshat Shri Bhogya Lakshmi
Namah.
Shri Mataji: Mm?
Yogini: Bhogya Lakshmi.
Shri Mataji: Bhogya Lakshmi.
Bho-gya: ‘Bhoga’ means the one by which
you enjoy, by which you enjoy.
I mean it’s like the whole ocean of joy
is around you and you are like a bird who
cannot drink it.
Only through the grace of Bhogya Lakshmi,
you can enjoy that.
So the Spirit, though it is manifesting, you
are not enjoying your Spirit – even that.
Anything that you see — say you see a flower
— you should be able to enjoy.
You cannot enjoy because there is thought.
Anything you do [if] there is thought, you
cannot enjoy.
When the Spirit is flowing you get complete
enjoyment.
Actually I should say, I am the enjoyer of
it.
Yogis: Om twameva Sakshat, Shri Bhogya Lakshmi
Sakshat, Shri Adi Shakti Sakshat, Shri Bhagawati
Sakshat, Shri Mataji, Shri Nirmala Devi, Namoh
Namaha.
Yogini: Om Twameva Sakshat Shri Yoga Lakshmi
Namah.
Shri Mataji: Yoga Lakshmi.
The Lakshmi’s power which gives you Yoga.
Lakshmi supports your power of yoga by giving
you awareness.
The power by which you take to yoga is all
combined as Yoga Lakshmi.
Like your affluence: you are not satisfied
and you want to have Yoga.
The dissatisfaction you get till you have
got yoga is coming from the Yoga Lakshmi.
So Yoga Lakshmi is the power which gives you
or takes you to your grace, by which you go
to yoga: that’s Yoga Lakshmi.
Means the kind of a satisfaction that you
seek is manifested in you through this power
of Yoga Lakshmi.
And then once you have achieved your yoga,
you get the grace.
Lakshmi is the grace.
So you get the grace of a saint.
You should have the grace of a saint.
You should look like a saint.
You are a saint.
I think better write it on your mirrors, “We
are saints.
We are men of God.
We have to behave like saints.
We are saints.”
You are, no doubt.
You are men of God, no doubt, but you have
to turn your faces this way.
So, this is the Yoga Lakshmi.
For example a person who has got Yoga Lakshmi
doesn’t quarrel like a madcap.
If he quarrels or dominates someone in a foolish
way then he’s still lacking that Lakshmi
point.
There’s a grace about it, the whole way
of talking.
How you talk to a saint?
All right.
Yogis: Om twameva Sakshat, Shri Yoga Lakshmi
Sakshat, Shri Adi Shakti Sakshat, Shri Bhagawati
Sakshat, Shri Mataji, Shri Nirmala Devi Namoh
Namaha.
Shri Mataji: So these are the eight-fold paths
by which one has to grace oneself.
This is the attire of Sahaj Yogis.
And today you have asked for it.
May God give you that power.
One more thing I have to say just before we
start doing the thing [is] that around the
Lakshmi you know is the Void.
And though the Lakshmi in a situation where
there is negativity, She runs away, She is
frightened.
She is a frightened Deity.
She is very sensitive.
She doesn’t like any negativity.
As soon as the negativity comes in She runs
away.
In the same way those people, those great
saints who were born on the Void, have said
that, “Those people who try to frighten
Lakshmi are the people who are irreligious,”
in the sense they drink.
Those people who drink, in the third generation
lose their Lakshmi completely.
You can see the results now: those who used
to take one peg (30 ml of alcohol), now are
sitting in the pub the whole night.
And that’s what it is that, once these things
enter into your family or household, they
start corroding your Lakshmi.
That’s why we have to understand that Lakshmi
is very, very sensitive to this point.
And Lakshmi is extremely sensitive to fanaticism,
extremely sensitive to fanaticism.
Any kind of fanatic ideas you have got, She
will run away.
She can’t stand fanaticism.
As soon as fanaticism will settle down into
any country, it will start becoming poorer
and poorer.
Any kind of fanaticism about religion is to
be avoided.
Now so many young people who are aware of
fanaticism because, thank God, there are some
horrible fanatics which have proved that fanaticism
is bad, and they are now coming round it.
But when fanaticism works out, the expulsion
of all the powers of Lakshmi from within,
that’s the sure and certain sign that you
really invite cancer, really invite cancer.
Also alcohol does, but this is the triggering
point.
If an alcoholic is also a fanatic, it will
trigger much faster.
Fanaticism is to be to be avoided like leprosy
for Sahaja Yogis.
But not only that, we have to stand up in
a revolt against all kinds of fanaticism.
Just this is the revolution against all fanaticism
of life.
That’s very important for the establishment
of Shri Lakshmi.
Any religion, any fanaticism that collides
with another religion or in any way belittles
it — because all religions are just the
same of one God — belittles another religion
or insults anyone is absolutely against Lakshmi’s
Principle.
So we go, after all this, when we rise above
this, we go to Mahalakshmi principle.
Now the awareness that was seeking up to Lakshmi
— means you achieve money, achieve position
for achieving grace, once you have achieved
the grace of this, you want to achieve God.
And this new awakening within you that you
have to achieve God now is the power of Mahalakshmi.
By the power of Mahalakshmi only, you achieve
your saintliness, your Realisation.
That’s why She came on this earth as the
Mother of Jesus Christ.
That was Mahalakshmi, not Lakshmi but Mahalakshmi.
May God bless you.
(Puja commences with discussion and mantras)
Gavin: gurushaya Namaha.
Istadevata Namah, all those: that we do first.
Shri Mataji: All right.
All the names of the Gods or all the Deities.
Gavin: Om Shri Mahaganapati Namah
Shri Saraswati Mataya Namah
Gurubhyo Namah
Vedapurushaya Namah
Ishtadevatabhyo Namah
Kuladevatabhyo Namah
Sthandevatabhyo Namah
Shri Mataji: Sthanadevata!
Gavin: Gramdevatabhyo Namah
Vastudevatabhyo Namah
Shachipurandarabhyam Namoh
Kalkam Parashuramebhyo Namah
Matrupitrubhyam Namoh
Adityadinavagrahadevatabhyo Namah
Sarvebhyo Devebhyo Namah
Sarvebhyo Bhahmanebhyo Namah
Yetad Karma Pradhanadevatabhyo Namah
Shri Mataji: Mmm, very good!
All the Deities within you, see all the Deities
within you.
You see, all the deities within you have been
already…(Mother is interrupted)
Shri Mataji: Why is she taking?
Don’t do like that!
Yogi: It’s time to go and feed her soon.
Shri Mataji: Ha?
Cover her head.
Don’t do like that.
No no no no no Cover their heads, Jane what
are you doing?
Yogini: She was crying Mother.
I’m not sure, you know, whether she wants
feeding or changing.
Shri Mataji: No no no.
Foment her stomach here..
Take her out.
She’ll be all right.
Don’t take her outside.
Ha.
Give her here.
Shri Mataji: Ha.
Let’s help her.
Somebody can bring just a cheap little cloth
or something and a ??
Gavin: Then we make the dedication of saying
where is the puja is being held.
So: on the ninth of November in the winter
season on the fifteenth night of the moon,
when the sun in Tropic of Capricorn, we do
this puja…
Shri Mataji: Today is the second day of the
moon.
Actually is the other week has started now.
That date was fifteenth, but today is the
second day, second day of the moon.
On the Shukla Paksha.
On the Shukla Paksha means when the moon is
going to become bigger.
All of this is very important, is historical,
you see, that’s why it would be nice to
say that.
Come along!
Gavin: We do this puja in Hampstead, in London,
in England, in Europe, in this world, on behalf
of all Sahaj Yogis.
Shri Mataji: Ask you now…
Has she got the flu.
Hand to Swadhishthan.